README.md, before:

<!-- Language: 日本語 / English -->

# QRCodeGeneratorMnr PCF

日本語 / Japanese | [English](#english)

Power Apps でテキストから QR コードを生成して表示する PCF コントロールです。キャンバス/モデル駆動どちらでも利用できます。生成した QR の PNG データ URL を出力プロパティ `qrDataUrl` で取得でき、Power Automate などに連携できます。

## 前提条件
- Node.js LTS (推奨 v18)
- Microsoft Power Platform CLI (`pac`)
- .NET 6 SDK もしくは Visual Studio Build Tools（ソリューション作成時）

## セットアップ
1. 依存関係のインストール

```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm install
```

2. 型を生成（必要に応じて）
```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm run refreshTypes
```

## ビルドとローカル確認
- ビルド
```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm run build
```
- ウォッチ + サンドボックス起動
```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm start
```
ブラウザで http://localhost:8181 を開くと、コントロールをサンドボックスで確認できます。

## Dataverse ソリューション化（このリポジトリには含めません）

リポジトリにはソリューションを含めていません（`.gitignore` で `Solutions/` を除外）。必要に応じてローカルで生成してください。

手順（例: Publisher=minoru/mnr, Managed 出力）:
```pwsh
# リポジトリのルートで実行
pac solution init --publisher-name "minoru" --publisher-prefix "mnr" --outputDirectory .\Solutions
pac solution add-reference --path .\PCFProject --solution-directory .\Solutions

# Managed 出力にする（Solutions/Solutions.cdsproj を編集）
# <SolutionPackageType>Managed</SolutionPackageType>

# Release ビルド実行
cd Solutions
dotnet build -c Release
```
生成物（Managed）: `Solutions/bin/Release/Solutions.zip`

インポート手順:
1) 管理センターまたは Maker Portal で環境を開く
2) ソリューション > インポート
3) 上記 `Solutions.zip`（Managed）を指定

 

注記:
- pac solution init は --solution-name ではなく、出力先 `--outputDirectory` を指定します（ソリューション名は `Solutions/src/Other/Solution.xml` に記述）。
- Publisher は `--publisher-name`（表示名）と `--publisher-prefix`（接頭辞）の2つを指定します。

## コントロール プロパティ
- textToEncode: エンコードする文字列（バインド可）
- errorCorrection: エラー訂正レベル L/M/Q/H（既定: M）
- size: 画像/キャンバスのサイズ px（既定: 256）
- margin: 静寂域（モジュール数、既定: 4）
- foregroundColor: 前景色 HEX（既定: #000000）
- backgroundColor: 背景色 HEX（既定: #ffffff）
- asImage: true で `<img>`、false で `<canvas>` に描画（既定: false）

出力:
- qrDataUrl: 生成した QR の PNG Data URL（SingleLine.Text）。画像コントロールの Image に `QRCodeGeneratorMnr_1.qrDataUrl` のように設定可能。Power Automate にも渡せます。

## 既知の注意点
### `<img>` と `<canvas>` の違い（使い分け）

- `<img>`
	- ブラウザが画像として扱うため、右クリック保存や Alt テキスト、印刷などに強い。
	- Data URL を `src` に設定するだけで再描画が不要で、単純表示では軽量。
	- 見た目のリサイズは CSS で簡単に制御可能。
- `<canvas>`
	- ピクセルベースの描画で、フィルター・合成・独自レンダリングなどの加工が柔軟。
	- 描画や再レンダリングのコードが必要。保存や Alt テキストは標準機能では提供されない。
	- 印刷やアクセシビリティ対応は追加工夫が必要。

使い分けの目安:
- ただ表示・保存したいだけ → asImage = true（`<img>`）
- 描画後に加工/合成したい、独自のレンダリング制御が必要 → asImage = false（`<canvas>`）

- 入力テキストが空の場合はプレースホルダー表示になります。
- 入力が空のときは `qrDataUrl` は空文字になります。

## ライセンス
This project uses the MIT-licensed `qrcode` npm package.

---

## English

Power Apps PCF control to generate and display QR codes from text. Works in both Canvas and Model-driven apps. The generated QR PNG data URL is exposed via the output property `qrDataUrl`, which can be used in Power Automate and other processes.

### Prerequisites
- Node.js LTS (recommended v18)
- Microsoft Power Platform CLI (`pac`)
- .NET 6 SDK or Visual Studio Build Tools (for solution packaging)

### Setup
1. Install dependencies
```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm install
```
2. Generate types (when you change manifest)
```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm run refreshTypes
```

### Build and local sandbox
- Build
```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm run build
```
- Watch + sandbox
```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm start
```
Open http://localhost:8181 to test the control in the sandbox.

### Dataverse Solution (not included in this repo)
This repository does not contain the packaged solution (`Solutions/` is ignored). Generate it locally when needed.

Steps (e.g., Publisher=minoru/mnr, Managed output):
```pwsh
# Run at repo root
pac solution init --publisher-name "minoru" --publisher-prefix "mnr" --outputDirectory .\Solutions
pac solution add-reference --path .\PCFProject --solution-directory .\Solutions

# Enable Managed output (edit Solutions/Solutions.cdsproj)
# <SolutionPackageType>Managed</SolutionPackageType>

# Build release
cd Solutions
dotnet build -c Release
```
Output (Managed): `Solutions/bin/Release/Solutions.zip`

Import steps:
1) Open your environment in Admin Center or Maker Portal
2) Solutions > Import
3) Select the Managed `Solutions.zip` above

 

Notes:
- pac solution init uses `--outputDirectory` rather than `--solution-name`; the actual solution name is in `Solutions/src/Other/Solution.xml`.
- Publisher has two parts: `--publisher-name` (display name) and `--publisher-prefix` (customization prefix).

### Control properties
- textToEncode: string to encode (bindable)
- errorCorrection: L/M/Q/H (default: M)
- size: canvas/image size in px (default: 256)
- margin: quiet zone in modules (default: 4)
- foregroundColor: HEX (default: #000000)
- backgroundColor: HEX (default: #ffffff)
- asImage: true to render as `<img>`, false for `<canvas>` (default: false)

Output:
- qrDataUrl: PNG Data URL (SingleLine.Text). You can set an image control's Image property to `QRCodeGeneratorMnr_1.qrDataUrl` in Canvas apps, or pass it to Power Automate.

### Notes
### `<img>` vs `<canvas>` (when to use which)

- `<img>`
	- Treated as an image element: easy save (right click), alt text, and printing.
	- Setting a data URL to `src` needs no custom redraw and is lightweight for simple display.
	- Visual resizing is straightforward with CSS.
- `<canvas>`
	- Pixel-level drawing suitable for filters, composition, and custom rendering.
	- Requires drawing code. Saving/alt text aren’t provided out of the box.
	- Printing and accessibility usually need extra care.

Decision guide:
- If you just want to display or save → asImage = true (`<img>`)
- If you need post-processing or custom rendering → asImage = false (`<canvas>`)

- If the input text is empty, a placeholder is displayed.
- When the input is empty, `qrDataUrl` becomes an empty string.

### License
This project uses the MIT-licensed `qrcode` npm package.

Commit message:

feat: simplify rendering to <img> only; remove asImage property and update docs

README.md, after:

<!-- Language: 日本語 / English -->

# QRCodeGeneratorMnr PCF

日本語 / Japanese | [English](#english)

Power Apps でテキストから QR コードを生成して表示する PCF コントロールです。キャンバス/モデル駆動どちらでも利用できます。生成した QR の PNG データ URL を出力プロパティ `qrDataUrl` で取得でき、Power Automate などに連携できます。

## 前提条件
- Node.js LTS (推奨 v18)
- Microsoft Power Platform CLI (`pac`)
- .NET 6 SDK もしくは Visual Studio Build Tools（ソリューション作成時）

## セットアップ
1. 依存関係のインストール

```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm install
```

2. 型を生成（必要に応じて）
```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm run refreshTypes
```

## ビルドとローカル確認
- ビルド
```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm run build
```
- ウォッチ + サンドボックス起動
```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm start
```
ブラウザで http://localhost:8181 を開くと、コントロールをサンドボックスで確認できます。

## Dataverse ソリューション化（このリポジトリには含めません）

リポジトリにはソリューションを含めていません（`.gitignore` で `Solutions/` を除外）。必要に応じてローカルで生成してください。

手順（例: Publisher=minoru/mnr, Managed 出力）:
```pwsh
# リポジトリのルートで実行
pac solution init --publisher-name "minoru" --publisher-prefix "mnr" --outputDirectory .\Solutions
pac solution add-reference --path .\PCFProject --solution-directory .\Solutions

# Managed 出力にする（Solutions/Solutions.cdsproj を編集）
# <SolutionPackageType>Managed</SolutionPackageType>

# Release ビルド実行
cd Solutions
dotnet build -c Release
```
生成物（Managed）: `Solutions/bin/Release/Solutions.zip`

インポート手順:
1) 管理センターまたは Maker Portal で環境を開く
2) ソリューション > インポート
3) 上記 `Solutions.zip`（Managed）を指定

 

注記:
- pac solution init は --solution-name ではなく、出力先 `--outputDirectory` を指定します（ソリューション名は `Solutions/src/Other/Solution.xml` に記述）。
- Publisher は `--publisher-name`（表示名）と `--publisher-prefix`（接頭辞）の2つを指定します。

## コントロール プロパティ
- textToEncode: エンコードする文字列（バインド可）
- errorCorrection: エラー訂正レベル L/M/Q/H（既定: M）
- size: 画像/キャンバスのサイズ px（既定: 256）
- margin: 静寂域（モジュール数、既定: 4）
- foregroundColor: 前景色 HEX（既定: #000000）
- backgroundColor: 背景色 HEX（既定: #ffffff）
- 表示形式: `<img>` 固定（以前の asImage プロパティは廃止）

出力:
- qrDataUrl: 生成した QR の PNG Data URL（SingleLine.Text）。画像コントロールの Image に `QRCodeGeneratorMnr_1.qrDataUrl` のように設定可能。Power Automate にも渡せます。

## 既知の注意点
### 表示方式について

このコントロールは `<img>` での表示に固定しました。単純表示・保存・印刷・代替テキストなど一般的な用途での利便性が高いためです。

- 入力テキストが空の場合はプレースホルダー表示になります。
- 入力が空のときは `qrDataUrl` は空文字になります。

## ライセンス
This project uses the MIT-licensed `qrcode` npm package.

---

## English

Power Apps PCF control to generate and display QR codes from text. Works in both Canvas and Model-driven apps. The generated QR PNG data URL is exposed via the output property `qrDataUrl`, which can be used in Power Automate and other processes.

### Prerequisites
- Node.js LTS (recommended v18)
- Microsoft Power Platform CLI (`pac`)
- .NET 6 SDK or Visual Studio Build Tools (for solution packaging)

### Setup
1. Install dependencies
```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm install
```
2. Generate types (when you change manifest)
```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm run refreshTypes
```

### Build and local sandbox
- Build
```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm run build
```
- Watch + sandbox
```pwsh
cd .\PCFProject
npm start
```
Open http://localhost:8181 to test the control in the sandbox.

### Dataverse Solution (not included in this repo)
This repository does not contain the packaged solution (`Solutions/` is ignored). Generate it locally when needed.

Steps (e.g., Publisher=minoru/mnr, Managed output):
```pwsh
# Run at repo root
pac solution init --publisher-name "minoru" --publisher-prefix "mnr" --outputDirectory .\Solutions
pac solution add-reference --path .\PCFProject --solution-directory .\Solutions

# Enable Managed output (edit Solutions/Solutions.cdsproj)
# <SolutionPackageType>Managed</SolutionPackageType>

# Build release
cd Solutions
dotnet build -c Release
```
Output (Managed): `Solutions/bin/Release/Solutions.zip`

Import steps:
1) Open your environment in Admin Center or Maker Portal
2) Solutions > Import
3) Select the Managed `Solutions.zip` above

 

Notes:
- pac solution init uses `--outputDirectory` rather than `--solution-name`; the actual solution name is in `Solutions/src/Other/Solution.xml`.
- Publisher has two parts: `--publisher-name` (display name) and `--publisher-prefix` (customization prefix).

### Control properties
- textToEncode: string to encode (bindable)
- errorCorrection: L/M/Q/H (default: M)
- size: canvas/image size in px (default: 256)
- margin: quiet zone in modules (default: 4)
- foregroundColor: HEX (default: #000000)
- backgroundColor: HEX (default: #ffffff)
- Rendering: always `<img>` (the previous asImage property was removed)

Output:
- qrDataUrl: PNG Data URL (SingleLine.Text). You can set an image control's Image property to `QRCodeGeneratorMnr_1.qrDataUrl` in Canvas apps, or pass it to Power Automate.

### Notes
### About rendering mode
This control now always renders as an `<img>` for better simplicity and usability (display, save, print, alt text). The previous asImage option has been removed.

- If the input text is empty, a placeholder is displayed.
- When the input is empty, `qrDataUrl` becomes an empty string.

### License
This project uses the MIT-licensed `qrcode` npm package.
